chartz Metterklume Method by Saki: Lady Carlotta stepped out onto the platform of the small Wayside station and took a turn or two up and down its uninteresting length to kill time till the train should be pleased to proceed on its way. Then in the roadway beyond she saw a horse struggling with more than ample load and a corridor of the sort that seems to bear a sullen hatred against the animal that helps him to earn a living. Lady Carlotta promptly took herself to the roadway and put a rather different complexion on the struggle. Certain of her acquaintances were wont to give her plentiful admonition as to the undesirability of interfering on behalf of a distressed animal, such interference being none of her business. Only once had she put the doctrine of non-interference into practice, but one of its most eloquent exponents had been besieged for nearly three hours in a small and extremely uncomfortable tree by an angry boar pig while lady Carlotta on the other side of the fence had proceeded with the watercolor sketch she was engaged on and refused to interfere between the boar and his prisoner. It is to be feared that she lost the friendship of the ultimately rescued lady on this occasion. She merely lost the train, which gave way to the first sign of impatience it had shown through the journey and steamed off without her. She bore the desertion with philosophical indifference, her friends and relations were thoroughly well used to the fact of her luggage arriving without her. She wired a vague non-committal message to her destination to say she was coming on by another train before she had time to think what her next move might be she was confronted by an opposingly attired lady who soon to be taking a prolonged mental inventory of her clothes and looks.

“Well, you must be Miss Hope, the governess, have come to meet,” said the apparition in a tone that admitted a very little argument. “Well, very well, if I must, I must,” said lady Carlotta to herself with dangerous meekness. “I am Mrs Kubara,” continued the lady, “and where, pray, is your luggage?” “It’s gone astray,” said the alleged governess, failing to fall in with the excellent rule of life that the absent are always to blame. The luggage hadn’t pointed fact behaved with perfect correctness. “I’ve just telegraphed about it,” she added with a nearer approach to truth. “Well, how provoking is Mrs Corball! These Railway companies are so careless. However, my maid can lend you things for the night,” and she led the way to her car.

Well, during the drive to the quarrel Mansion lady Carlotta was impressively introduced to the nature of the charge that she’d been thrust upon her. She learned that Claude and Wilfred were delicate, sensitive young people, that Irene had the artistic temperament highly developed, and that Viola was something or other else of a mold equally commonplace among children of that class and type in the 20th century. “I wish them not only to be taught,” said Mrs Corbarro, “but interested in what they learned in their history lessons. You must try to make them feel that they’re being introduced to the life stories of men and women who really lived, not merely committing a mass of names and dates to memory. French, of course, I shall expect you to talk at all meal times several days in the week. I shall talk French four days of the week and Russian in the remaining three. Russian! Oh, my dear Miss Hope, no one in the house speaks or understands Russian.” “Well, that will not embarrass me in the least,” said lady Carlotta coldly. 

How to use a colloquial expression, she was knocked off her perch. She is one of those imperfectly self-assured individuals who are magnificent and autocratic as long as they’re not seriously opposed. The least show of unexpected resistance goes a long way towards rendering them cowed and apologetic. When the new governess failed to express wondering admiration of the large, newly purchased and expensive car and lightly alluded to the superior advantages of one or two makes which had just been put on the market, the discomforture of a patronus became almost abject. Her feelings were those which might have animated a general of ancient warfaring days on beholding his heaviest battle elephant ignominiously driven off the field by slingers and javelin throwers. 

Well, at dinner that evening, although reinforced by her husband who usually duplicated her opinions and lent her moral support generally, Mrs Corball gained none of her lost ground. The governess not only helped herself well and truly to wine but held forth with considerable show of critical knowledge on various vintage matters concerning which the Corbarrels were no wise able to pose as authorities. Previous governesses had limited their conversation on the wine topic to a respectful and doubtless sincere expression of a preference for water. When this one went as far as to recommend a wine firm in whose hands you could not go very far wrong, Mrs Corball thought in time to turn the conversation to more usual channels. 

“We got very satisfactory references about you from Canon Teep,” she observed. “A very estimable man, I should think.” “Well, he drinks like a fish and beats his wife, but otherwise a very lovable character,” said the governess imperturbably. “My Dear Miss Hope, I trust you’re exaggerating!” exclaimed the Corbarrels in unison. “One must in justice admit that there is some provocation to continue the romancer. Mrs Teep is quite the most irritating bridge player that I’ve ever sat down with. Her leads and declarations would condone a certain amount of brutality in her partner, but to salzer at the contents of the only soda water siphon in the house on a Sunday afternoon when one couldn’t get another argues an indifference to the comfort of others which I cannot altogether overlook.” “You may think me hasting my judgments, but it’s practically on account of the siphon incident that I left.” 

“We’ll talk of this some other time,” so Mrs Kubal hastily. “Well, I shall never allude to it again,” so the governess with decision. Mr Corball made a welcome diversion by asking what studies the new instructor proposed to inaugurate on the morrow. “Well, history to begin with,” she informed him. “Ah, history,” he observed sagely. “Now, teaching them history you must take care of the interest in them and what they learned. You must make them feel that they’re being introduced to the life stories of men and women who really lived.” “I’ve told her all that,” interposed Mrs Corbarro. “I teach history on the shorts medical method,” so the governess loftily. 

“Oh, yes,” Sir Listeners thinking that expedient to assume an acquaintance at least with the name. “What are you children doing out here?” Matt and Mrs Quarrel the next morning on finding Irene sitting rather glumly at the head of the stairs while her sister was perched in an attitude of distressed discomfort on the window seat behind her with a wolf skin rug almost covering her. “We are having a history lesson,” came the unexpected reply. “I’m supposed to be Rome and Villa up there is the she-wolf, not a real wolf but the figure of one that the Romans used to set the store by. I forget why.” “Claude and Wilfred have gone to fetch the shabby women.” “Yes, they’ve got to carry them off. They didn’t want to, but Miss Hope got one of Father’s five fives bats and said she’d give them a number nine spanking if they didn’t, so they’ve gone to do it.” 

A loud angry screaming from the direction of the lawn drew Mrs Cabral thither in hot haste, fearful less the threatened castigation might even be now in the process of infliction. The outcry, however, came principally from the two small daughters of the lodge keeper who were being hauled and pushed towards the house by the panting and disheveled Claude and Wilfred, whose task was rendered even more arduous by the incessant if not very effectual attacks of the captured maiden’s smaller brother. The governess, five’s bat in hand, sat negligently on the stone balustrade presiding over the scene with the cold impartiality of a goddess of battles. A furious and repeated chorus of “Tell Mother Rose!” from the lodge children, but the lodge mother, who was hard of hearing, was for the moment immersed in the preoccupation of her wash tub. After an apprehensive glance in the direction of the lodge, the good woman was gifted with the highly militant temper which is sometimes the privilege of deafness. Mrs Corballa flew indignantly to the rescue of the struggling captives. “Wilfred, Claude, let those children go at once, Miss Hope! What on Earth is the meaning of the scene?” “Well, it’s early Roman history, the Sabine women, don’t you know? It’s the schartzmaneklu method to make children understand history by acting in themselves. It fixes it in their memory. You know, of course, if thanks to interference your boys go through life thinking that the Sabine Women ultimately escaped, I really cannot be held responsible.” 

“Well, you may be clever and modern, Miss hope,” so Mrs Corral firmly, “but I should like you to leave here by the next train. Your luggage will be sent after you as soon as it arrives.” “I’m not certain exactly where I shall be for the next few days so the dismissed instructor of Youth. You might keep my luggage till I wire my address there are only a couple of trunks and some golf clubs. Oh, and a leopard cub.” “A leopard cub!” gasped Mrs Cabarro, even in her departure this extraordinary person seemed destined to leave a trail of embarrassment behind her. “Well, it’s rather left off being a cub, it’s more half grown you know, a foul every day and a rabbit on Sundays is what it usually gets. Raw beef makes it too excitable. Don’t trouble about getting the car for me, I’m rather inclined for a walk,” and Lady Carlotta strode out of the Cabral highs horizon. 

The advent of a genuine Miss Hope who had made a mistake as to the day on which she was due to arrive caused a turmoil which that good lady was quite unused to inspiring. Obviously the Cabral family had been woefully befooled, but a certain amount of relief came with the knowledge how tiresome for you dear Carlotta said her Hostess when the overdue guests ultimately arrived. “How very tiresome losing your train and having to stop overnight in a strange place!” “Oh dear no,” said lady Carlotta, “not at all tiresome for me.”

