. Packletide's Tiger by Saki:

It was Mrs. Packletide's pleasure and intention that she should shoot a tiger, not that the lust to kill had suddenly descended on her or that she felt she would leave India safer and more wholesome. The compelling motive for her deviation towards the footsteps of Nimrod was the fact that Luna Bimberton had recently been carried 11 miles in an airplane by an Algerian Aviator and talked of nothing else. Only a personally procured tiger skin and a Heavy Harvest of press photographs could successfully counter that sort of thing.

Mrs. Packletide had already arranged in her mind the lunch she would give at her house in Kurzon Street, ostensibly in Luna Bimberton's honor, with a tiger skin rug occupying most of the foreground. She’d also already designed the Tiger Claw Broach she was going to give Luna Bimberton on her next birthday. 

In a world swayed by hunger and love, Mrs. Packletide was an exception; her movements and motives were largely governed by the dislike of Luna Bimberton. Circumstances proved propitious. Mrs. Packletide had offered a thousand rupees for the opportunity of shooting a tiger without over much risk or exertion, and a neighboring village could boast of being the favored rendezvous of an animal of respectable antecedents, driven by age to abandon game killing and confine its appetite to smaller domestic animals. 

The prospect of earning the thousand rupees had stimulated the sporting instincts of the villagers. Children were posted day and night on the outskirts of the jungle to head the tiger back, and cheaper kinds of goats were left about to keep him satisfied. The one great anxiety was lest he should die of old age before the mem sahib's shoot. Mothers hushed their singing lest they curtail the restful sleep of the venerable beast.

The great night arrived, moonlit and cloudless. A platform had been constructed in a comfortable tree, and there crouched Mrs. Packletide and her paid companion, Miss Mebane. A goat, gifted with a persistent bleat, was tethered at the correct distance. With a cited rifle and a thumbnail pack of patience cards, the sports women awaited the quarry.

“I suppose we are in some danger,” said Miss Mebane, not nervous about the wild beast but dreading performing a service she’d paid for. “Nonsense,” said Mrs. Packletide, “it’s a very old tiger; it couldn’t spring up here even if it wanted to.” 

“If it’s an old tiger, I think you ought to get it cheaper. A thousand rupees is a lot of money.” Louisa Mebane adopted a protective attitude towards money, saving it from dissipation. Her speculations as to the market depreciation of tiger remnants were cut short by the appearance of the animal.

As soon as it caught sight of the tethered goat, it lay flat on the earth, seemingly less from a desire to take advantage of cover than for a short rest before commencing the attack. “I believe it’s ill,” said Louisa for the benefit of the village headman. “Hush,” said Mrs. Packletide, and at that moment the tiger commenced ambling towards his victim.

“Now urge!” cried Mrs. Packletide with excitement. “He doesn’t touch the goat; we didn’t pay for it. The bait was extra!” The rifle flashed, and the great beast sprang to one side and rolled over in stillness of death. 

A crowd of excited natives swarmed onto the scene, and their shouting carried the glad news to the village, where tomtoms took up the chorus of triumph. Mrs. Packletide felt the luncheon party in Kurzon Street seemed immeasurably nearer.

It was Louisa Mebane who drew attention to the fact that the goat was in death throws from a mortal bullet wound, while no trace of the rifle’s deadly work could be found on the tiger. Evidently, the wrong animal had been hit, and the beast had succumbed to heart failure caused by the sudden report of the rifle and accelerated by senile decay.

Mrs. Packletide was annoyed at the discovery, but she was now a possessor of a dead tiger, and the villagers gladly connived at the fiction that she had shot the beast. Mrs. Mebane afforded Mrs. Packletide a light heart for the cameras, and her pictured fame reached from the Texas weekly snapshot to the Illustrated Monday supplement.

As for Luna Bimberton, she refused to look at an illustrated paper for weeks, and her letter of thanks for the gift of a tiger claw brooch was a model of repressed emotion. The tiger skin rug traveled down to the manor house and was duly inspected and admired. It seemed to fit in appropriately when Mrs. Packletide went to the county costume ball as Diana.

She refused to fall in with Clovis’s suggestion of a primeval dance party, where everyone should wear the skins of beasts they had recently slain. “I should be rather a Baby Bunting,” she confessed. “My figure is quite good,” Clovis added with a malicious glance.

Louisa Mebane, a few days after the ball, quietly told Mrs. Packletide how she had shot the goat and frightened the tiger to death. “You surely wouldn’t give me away,” asked Mrs. Packletide, her face changing color. “I’ve seen a vegan cottage near Dorking that I should rather like to buy,” said Miss Mebane with seeming irrelevance. “680 Freehold, quite a bargain, only I don’t happen to have the money.”

Louisa Mebane’s pretty weekend cottage, christened by her live foves and gay in summertime, is the wonder and admiration of her friends. It is a marvel how Louisa manages to do it, is the general verdict. Mrs. Packletide indulges in no more big game shooting; the incidental expenses are so heavy, she confides to inquiring friends.


